Do I even need to ask?
( men groaning )
It's not what it looks like.
MICHAEL: Your brother hustling
us?
I've only played once before.
I actually have
a one in eight chance
of hitting a set
when I'm holding a pocket pair.
I'm about 50/50 to draw a flush
with three suited cards
in my hand, two off the draw.
I also count my outs.
I-I multiply by two.
I add one.
That's roughly my percentage
of hitting.
I'll be asking you soon
to take my seat.
Your son is killing us, okay?
ALAN:
No, not me.
The only other time
Charlie played,
I learned my lesson
about gambling
with a mathematician.
Weren't we playing
with bottle caps?
Yeah... or else
you'd have walked away
with the pink slip
to my car.
You know, there is some element
of chance here.
You know, I-I-I may
just be getting lucky.
That's funny, Sinclair.
Keep that up.
It comes back to me
when baseball starts.
CHARLIE:
Baseball?
The FBI have a team?
Yeah, we got
a whole league.
There's, uh, LAPD,
Sheriffs' Department...
D.A.'s got the killer squad.
Now that Kraft's in San Diego,
you guys don't have
a power hitter.
What about Don?
It's not my thing.
Oh, you play?
Don went to college
on a baseball scholarship.
What are you talking about--
you played pro
second base.
Single "A"
about a million years ago.
MICHAEL:
That's great.
You're this year's ringer.
No. I'm sorry.
Not interested, buddy.
- Come on, you gotta do it.
- Come on.
( phone rings )
Excuse me.
Eppes.
We'll be right there.
OFFICER: And then
what did you do, miss?
I tried the door,
but he didn't
answer...
- Mm-hmm.
- ...so I went in.
Did you see anybody?
Did you hear anything?
- Hey.
- Victim's girlfriend.
- Mm-hmm.
Coroner put time of death
around 8:00 this morning.
Victim's name is
Trevor Riley, 27.
Wanted on a federal warrant
for stock fraud.
What'd he die of?
The same way as a victim
from a previous case--
one you closed
a year ago.
What?!
He was definitely garroted.
Head's nearly severed.
Same as the Lisa Bayle murder.
Check his back.
Yep.
Looks like a knee could've been
pressed in here for leverage.
Also like the Bayle case.
And this.
DAVID: Looks like the wire he
used to kill him
he wrapped
around his work gloves here.
TECH: Maybe we can get some DNA
out of these?
He wore latex gloves
underneath 'em.
I mean, Cliff Howard confessed
to the crime.
We have his fingerprint
on Lisa Bayle's body.
An eyewitness put him
at the scene.
Could be a copycat-- someone who
read about the Bayle case.
No. We never released
the detail
about the gloves
to the press.
Did I actually put
the wrong guy in jail?
CHARLIE:
We all use math every day...
every day...
to predict weather...
to tell time...
to handle money...
Math is more than formulas and
equations.
It's logic.
It's rationality.
It's using your mind to solve
the biggest mysteries we know.
We've got two victims. Same m.o.
One case is
a year and a half old,
the other is brand-new.
So, Riley here
fancies himself
an investment
advisor,
yet he's convicted
of fraud,
arrested twice
for blackmail.
He's got spreadsheets
on his computer.
We'll need a forensic accountant
to untangle them.
What kind of blackmail
was he into?
Check it out.
He-He would sleep
with married women,
threaten to tell the husband
if they didn't pay him off.
Classy.
Yeah. Nice guy.
It was a solid job, Don.
Fingerprint, eyewitness,
confession.
She was found in her car,
although I'm pretty darn sure
she was killed someplace else.
He was definitely killed
in his apartment.
I mean, other
than that,
every detail matches up
perfectly.
Hello? Anybody home?
ALAN: Yeah, Donny, I'm here.
Hey, Dad, where's Charlie?
Oh, I was just
talking to Charlie.
He said your FBI team
needs another hitter.
Why aren't you playing
baseball with them?
Because I don't have time
for that.
Hey, Charlie.
You should play.
I mean, there's no reason
to waste
that experience--
they need a power hitter.
- Look, you got a minute?
- That's what I was getting at.
- All right, thanks.
- Actually, I got
a seminar in
about a half hour.
Just give me a minute,
all right?
This is a copy of a file we
pulled off a computer
that we think shows
some kind of fraud.
The problem is our accountants
are up to their necks
in this big
racketeering case;
they're not going
to be able to get
to it till next week.
Well, love to help,
but I'm preparing a seminar
on zeros of random
orthogonal polynomials.
This really isn't
an advanced application.
Look, please, just do
me a favor, all right?
15 months ago,
I closed a case:
the murder of
a young mother.
Now, the guy's in
jail, but the owner
of the computer we're
talking about here
was just killed in
the exact same way.
You suspect the two
are related.
Well, that's what I'm
trying to determine.
All right, all right,
I'll check it out.
Thank you.
So, what... you think you made
a mistake on your old case?
No.
I mean, we had solid evidence,
but the similarity
between the cases is just...
it's too glaring.
Well, uh...
who's the guy that's in jail?
Cliff Howard.
He had a record
for robbery, carjacking.
I mean, he lived blocks
from where we found the victim.
Well, a jury thought they had
the right guy, didn't they?
No. Never went to trial.
Pleaded guilty
to avoid a life sentence.
( sighs )
As I was removing
Trevor Riley's body,
I noticed the
facing was loose,
and when I
pulled it off...
Must be what,
several thousand?
AGENT:
Sir...
we got some more over here.
Here's the last of it.
About $525,000.
Yeah. No way he could explain
all this to a bank.
- Mm-mm.
- No mail in the box,
phone's turned off, and all of
his furniture's rented.
Whatever his scam was,
he was getting ready to move on.
DON: Yep.
( opera music playing nearby)
Neighbor.
Let's go check him out.
( turns volume down )
I was at the opera last night
when they found the body.
TERRY: We think he was killed
yesterday morning
at about 8:00 a.m.
Were you home?
I was getting ready
for school.
I heard him having
an argument.
I had my music on loud,
but they were louder.
"They"?
Yeah.
The electrician.
Would you recognize the man
if you saw him again?
Yeah, he's Hispanic.
Bald...
His van says
"The Electrician Connection."
So, you're a teacher?
Yes.
I teach music at Westmore.
Did you ever do any business
or have any financial dealings
with him?
No. I understand he was
some kind
of investment counselor?
Uh... I didn't have
any need for that.
Teacher's salary,
you understand?
DAVID:
Were you ever
at Trevor Riley's
apartment, Mr. Salazar?
SALAZAR: Yeah, I was at
Trevor Riley's place.
To fix the lights.
Yesterday morning?
Two months ago.
Did you do any other work
for Mr. Riley?
Why? What's going on?
Any other work,
Mr. Salazar?
I ran some grounded outlets
for his computers.
Your company doesn't have
a record of that.
My boss finds out,
I'm fired, okay?
I've got three kids.
I got to take work
off the books.
I went there before work,
never on the clock.
When did you install
the outlets?
I made three visits.
The last one was a week ago.
How is this an FBI...
Did you ever have any
disagreements with Riley,
at all,
at any time?
When I was finished...
he tried to underpay me.
We worked it out.
And you weren't there
yesterday morning?
I was at the batting cages.
I'm there every Tuesday
and Thursday.
Members can come and go
whenever.
They don't have
to sign in?
No, they get a combination.
They can punch it in
anytime
between 6:00 a.m.
and 11:00 p.m.
Midnight on weekends.
How about a security cam?
Any way I can
get a look at a tape?
It got busted. Foul ball.
TERRY: So Salazar has a fight
with the victim,
and his alibi doesn't hold up.
I mean, you got to figure
an electrician's gonna have
the fine-gauge wire
used in both killings, right?
Yeah.
Maybe he did some work
at Lisa Bayle's house.
You're thinking if we can prove
Salazar killed Trevor Riley,
then we find a link between
Salazar and Bayle...
I'm thinking we should
be focusing
on what got Riley killed.
( bat hitting ball )
Riley was running
a fraud...
a classic pyramid scheme.
DON: Why don't you tell us what
you know?
He sent e-mails to investors
at Smith-Waterson
that looked like
official communication.
It's called "spoofing."
Those e-mails
claimed that
he was connected to
Smith-Waterson; asked investors
to send him information:
user I.D.'s, security codes
and such--
so he could get
into their accounts.
Now, why didn't people
complain about missing money?
Mr. Riley was a very,
very smart man.
Instead of pulling out
lump sums,
which might draw
immediate notice,
he had a scheme
to drain out of
large sums
without raising an alarm.
He started by taking
two dollars out
of each account...
then he'd replace the money
within a few days
by taking two more dollars
out of two more accounts.
So he'd put two bucks back,
and keep the other two
for himself.
He recorded them
as accounting errors
with amounts so small,
no one double-checked.
Okay, so how does two dollars
become half a million?
Okay... uh...
good question.
And...
I've folded this paper twice.
It is now four times as thick
as it was.
If I could potentially fold it
50 times,
how tall do you think
the resulting stack of paper
would be?
Well, I mean, it's got to be
at least a couple feet.
No, no, I'd say
more like a building.
Tall enough to reach the sun.
Wow.
It's a geometric progression.
I mean, obviously, you cannot
fold this paper 50 times.
A high school student
named Britney Gallivan
predicted a way to do it
12 times
and then she did it
with actual paper.
She set a world record.
How tall was it?
Oh... a foot and a half.
The same principal applies
to embezzlement.
However, it takes twice
as many accounts at each level.
It's a pyramid scheme...
you know, it can't last, but...
by the 19th progression,
Riley had siphoned off
$524,288...
Right, 'cause he'd always
need twice as much
to replace
what he'd taken.
You run out of resources--
the pyramid collapses.
And, by the time
it all crashes down,
Riley's long gone.
DON: So you're saying he made
solicitations
to Smith-Waterson's
investors.
I'd like to know how
he got that list.
That shouldn't be
too hard to figure out.
Let me see
what I can do.
The Lisa Bayle
murder case--
I need you to look
at the evidence
and just see if there's
something I'm missing.
I have no idea how to evaluate
forensic evidence.
Well, it's just logic, Charlie.
You're trained in that.
You know how to spot
inconsistencies, right?
I mean, it's like
when a mathematician
makes a breakthrough.
He gets his peers...
Right.
Peer review
to check his findings.
It's what we do.
Well, just do me a favor and
see if I made any mistakes.
What incriminating
evidence was there?
First of all, we
got a confession,
we got a fingerprint,
we got an eyewitness account.
I'll try to understand the
methodology
behind each of those.
- Great. Thanks.
- No problem.
I got a line on how Riley got
Smith-Waterson's mailing list.
His girlfriend, Mikelle Peters,
works there.
You gave Trevor a list
of your company's client
e-mail addresses.
He said no one would notice.
Damn him.
He said if I didn't
give him that list,
he'd tell them about me.
So you were blackmailed?
Listen, you understand
what you're facing here?
You're an accessory to fraud.
That's just for starters.
He found out--
God knows how--
that I didn't graduate
from college.
I lied on my resume
to get this job.
He threatens to expose you,
you kept dating him?
He had money,
spent lots of it on me.
You know someone
named Jose Salazar?
Who?
Jose Salazar.
Oh, yeah, the electrician.
I think Trevor scammed him
or something.
Just tell me if you recognize
any of them,
but take your time.
What do you think?
The second from the left.
Can you point to him?
Number two.
Okay, I need you to sign it
to show that this is the man
you're identifying
as the one you saw in
Trevor Riley's apartment
on the morning
he was killed.
Hey, Jose, got a couple
more questions for you.
Aw, don't do this.
- You go right.
- I'm on it!
Stay down!
( handcuffs latching )
He said he could
add a zero.
To what?
To my $8,000.
17 years
of savings.
Then you find out he's about
to leave town with your money.
No, that's what
you're telling me.
I didn't know he was moving.
We've got prints,
we've got the right gauge wire
in the back of your truck,
we got an eyewitness
that makes a liar out of you.
The morning that Riley died,
I was at the batting cages.
You can ask anyone there.
We did.
The manager
doesn't remember you.
You know a woman
named Lisa Bayle?
April 9, 2004--
where were you?
In San Diego.
Spent the week
on a big job--
wiring apartments.
And I don't know
who you're talking about.
I don't know.
You think he
recognized her name?
Hard to say.
He reacted.
And he's got motive
for killing Riley,
an eyewitness put him
at the scene,
he threatened the victim,
he lied about his alibi.
Yeah, that's all good,
but all we've got on Lisa Bayle
is a similar M.O.
Could be coincidence.
Yeah... I mean...
my gut says no,
but I asked Charlie to
run some numbers on it.
I'm going to go see
if I can track him down.
Okay.
So what's the possibility
that these two murders
could have been done
by different people?
Okay... according
to the FBI's
crime stats,
in the entire country,
three or four people are killed
with a garrote every year.
Five percent of total murders
in the United States
take place in Los Angeles.
So, assuming that
he didn't get the idea
from the first killer,
there's a 4.9% chance
that this is a coincidence.
Yeah, I knew it would be slim.
What are you going to do?
Well, I'm going to hold
Jose Salazar for the murder
of Trevor Riley,
and see if I can
link him to Lisa Bayle.
And if Cliff Howard's in jail
by mistake,
I'm going to fix it.
Why do I have to tell you
all over again?
Because I need you
to tell me the truth
about what happened
to Lisa Bayle.
I told you.
I told everyone.
I killed her, and I'm sorry.
Okay, please take me through it
one more time.
I needed a car.
She was lost,
she asked for directions.
I pretended I didn't hear.
She got out of the car.
I came up behind her, wrapped
the wire around her neck,
pushed my knee
into her back and pulled.
Her feet lifted off the ground.
I put her body
in the backseat.
I'm sorry for what I did.
When I arrested you,
you told me you didn't do it.
You said you were home alone.
I lied.
Cliff, were you coerced
into confessing?
- No.
- You're not covering
for anybody?
I did it. Alone.
And I'm sorry.
You know someone
named Jose Salazar?
No.
Trevor Riley?
Never heard of him.
Mrs. Howard, remember me,
Don Eppes, FBI?
This is
Agent Sinclair.
What do you want?
We need to ask you
a few questions
about your husband.
Okay?
( sighs )
Cliff told you he did it
and he told you
he was sorry, right?
Right.
And I need to know,
and you gotta be
honest with me--
did he ever say
that he didn't do it?
Agent Eppes, Lisa Bayle
was a wealthy woman
three months pregnant.
We lived three blocks away
from where she was found.
You had his fingerprints
and a witness saw him.
You're not
answering my question.
My husband took a lawyer's
advice-- he confessed.
He's a model prisoner
and he expresses remorse
and in 27 years he might get out
when my son is 30.
DAVID: Mrs. Howard,
we're looking
at your husband's
case again.
We need to know if there's
anything he can add
to his story.
Good. Look again.
But Cliff can't help you.
He's sticking to his story
or risk losing his parole.
Mommy?
Hey, it's okay,
baby.
Hey... okay,
come here.
Come on.
Okay. Thanks.
- Hey, Charlie.
- Hey.
What's up?
I wanted to ask Don
about the eyewitness
in the Lisa Bayle case.
Yeah?
Do you think
Cliff Howard's lineup
was conducted in the same manner
as the one I saw yesterday--
the one of the man suspected
of killing Trevor Riley?
Yeah, all lineups
are conducted
pretty much in
the same manner, why?
Pick a number, any number.
Three.
Pick another number.
Six.
- Pick one more.
- Okay, but this is the last.
One.
I asked you to pick
a number three times
and three times you picked
a number between one and six.
Why? Why'd you do that?
Why didn't you pick zero,
or 3,000 or seven?
Because you didn't
write those down.
I didn't say pick a number
that I wrote
on the paper, did I?
No, I just assumed.
Exactly. A witness assumes
that he has to pick
one of the six people
he's looking at, right?
His decision is based
on that assumption.
Lineups are dictated
by Bureau policy.
They're based on case law.
It's the way
the Justice Department
has run lineups for years.
That doesn't make it right.
How is this math?
It's not math, it's logic,
really.
Mathematicians are trained
in logic.
All right, look,
there is another way.
It's called a sequential lineup.
We show photos one at a time,
and ask each time,
"Is this the guy?"
Studies show it reduces
false positives,
but it also reduces the number
positive I.D.'s,
even when the target
is present.
If Cliff Howard
was identified
by a witness looking at
a traditional lineup, then...
well, then...
that I.D. could be wrong, right?
Okay, I'll talk to the witness
in the Bayle case again.
Thanks.
MAN:
I've never seen him before.
- Are you sure?
- Yeah.
I mean, maybe he did some work
for you guys around here.
Yeah, he could have.
I wouldn't know.
Lisa was in charge
of all that.
I'm just trying
to figure out
if there's any possibility
that this man knew your wife.
Why?
You're not going to want
to hear this,
but there are some questions
about Cliff Howard's conviction.
The bastard said he did it.
I know.
I haven't seen you in a year.
I haven't seen you
since you interrogated me
for 48 hours.
- Sir...
- I had to call the funeral home
handcuffed to a table.
I was pursuing your wife's
murder wherever it took me.
So help me...
Now you want to tear
these wounds open again.
I don't want to do that.
This your... your daughter.
What's her name? Paula?
Yes.
Right. May I?
Go ahead.
She's a sophomore now.
Jonas, don't you want
to know the truth
about your wife's death?
Cliff Howard is the truth.
Oh, I see we're off
on yet another
exciting area of criminology.
Yep.
Don thinks he may have
put the wrong man
in jail for murder.
I'm trying
to determine
whether his case
holds up or not.
So, what, you're analyzing
modern American
criminal science?
I'm working
on an application
of statistical analysis
as it applies
to eyewitness identification.
It's clear that the six man,
side-by-side lineup
is intrinsically
flawed.
Yes. Yes,
I can see that,
but in this particular case
that you're working on here,
I mean, was the wrong
man identified?
CHARLIE:
We're not sure, but,
uh, but under this system,
it's possible that a witness
identified the wrong man.
Well, yes,
it's possible, but is that
what actually happened here?
I mean,
have you developed a
test to determine that?
No. We're studying
the methodology itself.
Well, why?
Not the accuracy
of the individual result?
You're trying to say
that we shouldn't
be debunking
the traditional method
of identifying suspects
through police lineups,
even though it's
seemingly unreliable?
Okay, I just...
Eh...
LARRY:
Yeah...
just...
I would just consider
the implications
just very carefully, you know.
'Cause this is a real
murder case, isn't it?
I mean, someone
has died and...
Yeah... I mean,
yes, you've demonstrated that
the identification may be wrong.
It's just that you haven't
proven it was wrong.
( door closes )
TERRY:
Mrs. Malloy,
did he run towards you
or away from you?
Away.
And it was dark.
Well, he looked behind.
He was about six feet
tall and wearing
a sweatshirt
and, uh, jeans.
And this is the same man
you saw in the lineup?
Well, of course he was there.
I picked him out.
Yes.
Have you ever seen this man?
That's the man I saw.
Okay.
Thank you.
Janice Malloy
identified Salazar
as Lisa Bayle's killer,
but before, she made
a positive I.D.
of Cliff Howard.
Doesn't inspire
confidence.
She was never cross-examined,
since Howard pled out.
So we have
an eyewitness that
might not be reliable,
and there's doubts
about the confession.
The only hard evidence
against Howard
is the fingerprint
on Bayle's body.
Which I want to get
checked again, and again
if we have to.
Let's do it.
( keyboarding )
I'm comparing a clean set
of Cliff Howard's prints
with this, taken
from Lisa Bayle's body.
- Right.
- 25% is visible.
The rest is
obviously distorted.
Okay, so there
is a chance
it's not Howard's
print, right?
A chance.
Mm, not exactly.
( keyboarding )
I found seven
commonalities
between the print
found on the body
and the one taken
directly from Howard.
Here, the same ridges form dots,
and here...
the same bifurcations,
and from that,
I'd say that the print
from the crime scene
is Cliff Howard's.
Which would mean
he di kill her.
CHARLIE:
How do we know that everyone
has their own
unique fingerprint?
Because no two people have
ever been found to have
the same prints.
Mm-hmm. And you've
examined everyone's print?
Everyone on the planet?
It's an
assumption we make,
based on a hundred years
of empirical evidence.
It is.
How often
does one part
of someone's print
resemble someone else's?
I couldn't
tell you that.
We've never done those kind
of, uh... population surveys.
Isn't random match probability
the only way you have of knowing
the likelihood
of two prints matching?
Random match is used
in DNA analysis.
Exactly. That's why,
when experts make a DNA match,
they don't say
it's a sure thing.
They say there's a one-
in-four-billion chance
that the DNA sample
comes from the same person.
But fingerprints
don't have odds.
They just match or
they don't match?
Two technicians before me
also determined
that this thumbprint
belongs to Cliff Howard.
Why is that,
why is that a thumbprint?
Why not, like a...
a left index finger?
Because it has the arches,
loops and whorls of a thumb.
See the center
of this whorl here?
It's a clock face.
This is 12:00.
What shape is this?
A cone.
Hmm. Depends on how
you look at it.
See, from different angles,
it's a circle,
or it's a triangle.
A Penrose triangle,
which is an impossible figure.
A cork plug,
which can be used
as a stopper for
a round, triangular
or square hole, depending
on how you turn it.
See, you assume that
this is a thumbprint
because you approach it
as such.
But is it possible
that someone else
has a left
index finger...
in which
a quarter-section,
turned sideways,
has points of commonality
with Cliff Howard's thumb?
I've been doing this
job for eight years.
Are you better at it now
than you were
- eight years ago?
- Of course.
Of course. So...
So it's not pure science,
it's interpretive.
It's an art,
if you will.
CJIS has an accuracy
rate of 99.7%.
That's 3,000 mistakes
per every million searches.
Do me a favor
and recheck the print
against Salazar's other fingers.
I don't have to.
This ridge form is known as
a butcher's hook.
It's rare,
and Salazar
doesn't have it.
On any finger.
Okay, tell me
I'm crazy.
I think I've just
found a way
to express
Calabi-Yau manifolds
in a way that goes
beyond the existence
of a nonvanishing
harmonic spinor.
Ch... Charles.
Has he been out there all night?
Well, on the bright side,
it seems like Don's taken up
an interest in sports again.
It's like the evidence
proves him right
and wrong at the same time.
Oh, yeah, the old paradox
of Schroedinger's Cat.
Is that that Persian that keeps
hiding out in our garage?
Mm-mm, it's
an intellectual exercise.
I knew that.
Okay,
this is vastly simplified.
There's a cat
in a box.
50-50 chance it's been poisoned,
but now here's
the paradox:
Until such time
as we can open the box,
and observe the cat,
for that time,
that cat is both alive
and dead.
Larry, I-I-I fail
to see the analogy, though.
I mean,
in reality, Don can't be
both right and wrong
at the same time.
ALAN:
Well, of course not.
I mean, if a man is
both right and wrong,
something's gotta be wrong.
No. The truth
of Schroedinger's Cat
is that the question
itself is meaningless
until we look inside the box.
Let's say
that I'm Alan Iverson.
Charlie, I'm not in the mood.
And I'm the only person in the
world that can get past you
for two points.
I just proved
I'm Alan Iverson.
No, you just proved that,
20 years later,
I'm still falling
for the same fake.
It's a syllogistic fallacy.
It's based
on a wrong assumption.
Yeah?
I'm obviously
- not Alan Iverson.
- Yeah.
Saying that I am,
then proposing
a test doesn't change that.
So what does this have
to do with my case?
You found a link between
Salazar and Lisa Bayle
because you thought
he was guilty,
and what if you're wrong?
Then finding
a link to Lisa Bayle
won't make you right.
Maybe there's
a different link
that'll tell you more.
Like a link
between the victims.
Which would mean
a... could mean
a completely different killer,
not Howard or Salazar.
Right.
So is this math or logic?
Same thing.
No.
What about him?
He's always in cage four.
Tuesday-Thursday guy.
Me, I'm usually here five,
- six days a week.
- Let me ask you this:
Do you, by any chance,
recall if he was here
Thursday morning, the eighth?
I went to Vegas on the ninth.
Yeah, he was here.
Yeah?
Yeah.
DAVID:
Conflicting witnesses.
This guy puts Salazar here
at the time of
the Riley murder.
Riley's neighbor,
Mark Andric,
he puts him at the scene.
And you know, Andric
works over at Westmore.
I'll bet he's probably
getting in around now.
Maybe we should go
and see if we can get him
to clarify a thing
or two, huh?
Okay. Put any
more thought
into playing for
the FBI team?
Ah, you know. I played
minor league ball.
The Stockton Rangers.
My last time up at bat,
pitcher's on fumes, right?
Throws me a gopher ball, I mean
the kind of fat, slow pitch
you know is going
over the fence.
Aw... you missed it.
Doubled.
Okay.
By the time I got
around first,
I knew in my heart
I'd never be more
than a mediocre
single-A player.
Signed up for the FBI
entrance exam the next day.
( bell ringing )
Wait, I've seen that crest.
Lisa Bayle's daughter
goes to this school.
I think she plays the violin.
That's gotta be
the connection
The kid takes music
lessons from Andric.
Bayle and Riley
know the same man
and they're killed
the exact same way.
- It's not a coincidence.
- No.
Excuse me.
We're with the FBI.
Is this Mark Andric's classroom?
Uh... yeah. He's out
sick. I'm the sub.
Sir, I'd like
to look through
this drawer.
Is that okay with you?
Yeah, sure.
How long you been here?
Just over a week.
A week.
FBI warrant!
FBI!
Warrant!
TERRY:
Going to the right.
FBI warrant!
Clear!
TERRY:
Bedroom's clear.
He's gone.
DON:
The man we know as Mark Andric
came here from Bosnia,
10 years ago.
However...
These fingerprints identify him
as former Serbian Army
Lieutenant Ramus Zeljada.
His right index finger has
a perfect butcher's
hook ridge form.
This is the same
formation that was found
on Lisa Bayle's body.
Must've figured out
who Andric really was.
And given
his history,
I think it's safe
to assume he used
blackmail to try
to keep him quiet.
But Zeljada,
being a sociopath,
he kills Riley instead.
Then he threw us Salazar
to give himself
time to disappear.
So we got two
innocent men in jail
and he's got
an eight-day lead on us,
so please, let's kick it in
and see what we can do.
Andric lived in four cities
in the last ten years:
Sydney, New York, Chicago, L.A.
Question is
where does he go next?
He's been moving west.
San Francisco? Honolulu?
The man knows how
to stay anonymous;
not even a parking ticket
to his name.
They've got him.
Off a credit card used
at an Econo Xpress
in Washington.
Seattle SWAT has the room
surrounded.
All right.
The suspects surrendered
after ten minutes
of negotiation,
unarmed and compliant.
Hold on. You say "suspects"?
We thought he was alone.
He picked up a partner
at a truck stop in Bakersfield.
White male, 20s,
stunningly poor hygiene.
Their hotel room was set up for
low-level meth manufacturing.
Looks like they were settling in
for a couple of weeks.
Here's your suspect.
Who's that?
The credit cards you had,
where'd you get them?
Uh, a Mark something.
I-I know him from a bar in L.A.
I needed to get out of town.
He sold me the card for 200.
Sydney, New York, Chicago, L.A.
All cities with mass transit,
fine arts, architecture.
They're all near bodies
of water,
have easy access
to transportation.
Charlie, anything mathematical,
logical?
I don't know.
You guys have all the experience
in finding fugitives.
Don...
...remember how you could never
lay off low and outside pitches?
What?!
Sorry, but low
and outside,
you couldn't stop swinging
at those pitches,
no matter how many times
you missed,
no matter how much
it hurt your average.
Charlie, what are you
talking about?
CHARLIE: Everyone has something
they like to do,
they can't help doing.
You can't help but swing
at low and outside pitches.
What does Andric do?
What can't he stay away from?
Remember when
we first talked to him,
he was listening to opera?
Said he'd been at the opera
the night they found
Lisa Bayle's body.
All four cities where
he's lived,
they have world-class opera
companies.
- Hey, you're right.
- See if there's
any major operas in L.A.
right now.
That's why he sold his credit
cards to a drug dealer
for almost no money.
Yeah, to create a false trail,
to make it appear
like he's leaving town
when he's actually
still here, man,
and he just doesn't want
you to know.
Zeljada had a poster
of the singer
Magdalena Urnatova
in his apartment.
Her final performance
of Aida is tonight
at the Dorothy Chandler
Pavilion.
All right, well...
who likes opera?
Anything?
Not yet.
DAVID ( over radio ):
We have a visual on the suspect.
Continue to follow.
DON ( over radio ):
Stay on him.
David, you got him?
DAVID:
Haven't seen him yet.
Suspect's headed into
the plaza!
( woman screams )
I got him!
- DON: Go!
- DAVID: I'm in pursuit!
Move!
Get back! Move!
Andric!
Get out
of the way!
Get out of the way!
Do not move!
Stop resisting!
There's a gun
against your head!
AGENT: All agents,
suspect is in custody.
I give him credit;
he knows how to resist
an interrogation.
Well, I mean,
compared to what
he's used to in Bosnia,
this is a cakewalk.
I still don't understand
why he killed Lisa Bayle.
What's his motive?
JONAS:
Mark Andric...
yeah,
Lisa knew him...
She spent a lot of time with him
because she volunteered
at the high school.
They worked together on a school
history project of some sort.
Now, Jonas, I know
how hard this is for you.
It's not easy
for me to ask, but...
You want to know
did I suspect
there was something going on
between them.
Yeah.
Yes, I did...
though I wasn't sure.
I don't understand.
I mean, why didn't you tell me
that before?
Didn't you think
the possibility
that she was
having an affair
might be connected
to her death in some way?
Look, first off,
I was your chief suspect.
If you knew that I thought
she was having an affair,
that would have convinced you
I was guilty.
Anyway,
almost immediately,
you arrested Cliff Howard,
and he confessed.
Okay... this is my last
difficult question.
Lisa was three months pregnant
at the time.
I don't think the baby was mine.
But after she died...
( sighs )
I didn't want to dwell on it.
And it didn't seem
to have anything
to do with why she died.
Do you think now that it did?
Yeah, I do.
The eyewitness was wrong.
The fingerprint technician
made a mistake.
A mistake?!
Man, how can that be?
You know, I mean,
we pretty much use science
for everything we do
these days, and I think...
...you know, as long as
there's people involved,
there's, there's
going to be
mistakes.
Not to justify it, but...
I'm sorry.
The first thing I said to you
is that I didn't do it.
I know.
I told you I remember.
( engine starts )
( clank )
Your sucker pitch--
low and outside, man.
You didn't swing.
You don't say?
You know, I've been running
some numbers
from your minor league days.
I wanted to see which ones
are the best pitches
for you to go after.
Charlie, I don't like
to think
about it too much,
all right?
Why not?
If you can analyze
your performance,
you can improve it, Don.
Some things are
about how it feels.
I think I can quantify
what feels right
about a particular pitch.
Oh, yeah.
I think the FBI might have
a new power hitter this season.
I'd say so.